---
description: >-
  Budibase apps rely on data. Within this part of the tutorial, I will show you
  how to add and manage data within Budibase.
---

# 3. Creating a table and uploading data

Budibase's data section is often described as the backend of your web app. This is where you add and manage your data. Budibase apps rely on data and it is strongly advised you create your data structure before designing your web application. 

At the highest level, we have Tables. Tables are collections of information, organized in Columns and Rows. Each row has information, which is structured by columns. Just like a spreadsheet.

For Simple CRM, we will require two tables. Click the create table button within Budibase, and name your first table: Deals , and click upload. Download deals.csv from below, and upload it.

* Change the Value table to a number.
* And click ‘create’. Within our new table, we will want select our display column - this helps the table understand which column to display when creating relationships between two tables.



{% file src="../.gitbook/assets/salesreps.csv" caption="Sales Reps CSV" %}

{% file src="../.gitbook/assets/deals.csv" caption="Deals CSV" %}

* [ ] Download the two CSVs above
* [ ] Click the create table button
* [ ] Name your first table: Deals and upload the Deals CSV
* [ ] In the upload, modal change  Value's data type from text to a number.
* [ ] Click create
* [ ] Now create another new table. Call it ‘Sales Reps’ and download, the salesreps.csv above and upload it
* [ ] The data within this CSV is structured how we want it - no need to change it. Simply click ‘create’.

Now, we want to create a relationship between both tables so we can assign Sales Reps to their Deals. Create a new column in Sales Reps table, and call it Deals. Select Relationship from the data type dropdown, and Select the Deals table, and click create.

Your relationship has been created.   


